GEN 5.5.2			
1	An Authorised Person must establish and maintain a Cyber Risk Management Framework to identify, assess and manage Cyber Risk effectively in an integrated and comprehensive manner.	A Firm must establish, implement and maintain a framework to manage cyber risks.	Establish a formal, scheduled process to review all cyber and information security policies, including those related to the firm's cyber risk management framework, at least annually. Ensure that each review is documented, including the date of the review, any updates made, and final approval by senior management.
2	An Authorised Person must ensure the Cyber Risk Management Framework is in writing and is approved by its Governing Body.	Is the cybersecurity framework formally documented? Has it been approved by the board, governing committee, etc.?	Establish a formal, scheduled process to review all cyber and information security policies, including those related to the firm's cyber risk management framework, at least annually. Ensure that each review is documented, including the date of the review, any updates made, and final approval by senior management.
3a	"The Cyber Risk Management Framework must:
(a) include systems and controls which are appropriate to the nature, scale and complexity of the activities conducted by the Authorised Person; "	Does the Cyber Risk Management Framework include systems and controls appropriately aligned to the nature, scale and complexity of the business activities?	"Conduct Risk Assessment to identify which system and controls are necessary based on nature and complexity of business
Implement controls and review them periodically for effectiveness."
3b	"The Cyber Risk Management Framework must:
(b) have clearly defined roles and responsibilities, including accountability for decision making during business-as-usual operations as well as in stressed situations."	Are cybersecurity roles and responsibilities clearly outlined for all conditions? 	Roles and responsibilities should be clearly defined for all personnel, with explicit accountability for decision-making during both business-as-usual operations and stressed situations. A formal decision-making framework or escalation matrix should be established to outline authority levels and escalation protocols.
4a	"The systems and controls in (3)(a) must include:
(a) system for identifying and assessing Cyber Risk which enables 
the Authorised Person to implement the requirements in Rule 
5.5.5; "	Are there systems and controls as mentioned in 3(a) in place to identify and assess Cyber Risks.	Establish a formal process to conduct Risk Assessments at regular intervals to identify and assess Cyber Risks.
4b	"The systems and controls in (3)(a) must include:
(b) a system for protecting ICT Assets in accordance with Rules 
5.5.6 to 5.5.15;"	Are there systems and controls as mentioned in 3(a) in place to protect the ICT Assets.	Firm should have systems and controls in place to protect the ICT Assets.
4c	"The systems and controls in (3)(a) must include:
(c) a system for managing and controlling Cyber Incidents which 
enables the Authorised Person to comply with the requirements 
in Rules 5.5.16 to 5.5.18"	"Are business Impact Analyses conducted across the Firm?
Is there an Incident Response plan in place for managing and controlling cyber incidents."	Establish contingency plans (e.g., incident response, business continuity, disaster recovery) for responding to and recovering from cyber Incidents. Review all the plans atleast annually.
5	"An Authorised Person must review periodically, and at least annually, 
its Cyber Risk Management Framework to ensure that it remains 
appropriate, effective and up-to-date."	At what frequency is the Cyber Risk Management Framework reviewed?	Review the Cyber Risk Management Framework atleast annually.
6	"An Authorised Person must integrate its Cyber Risk Management 
Framework within its overall risk management framework established 
under GEN Rules 5.3.4 to 5.3.6"	Does the origanization have an overall Risk Management Framework and is the Cyber Risk Management Framework integrated with the same?	Integrate Cyber Risk Framework with Overall Risk Management Framework and confirm that the framework is formally established, documented and operational.
GEN 5.5.3			
1	"An Authorised Person must manage Third-Party Cyber Risk as an 
integral part of its Cyber Risk Management Framework established 
under Rule 5.5.2, including by:"	Do you have a Third Party Risk Management program in place? Is it an integral part of your Cyber Risk Management Framework?	Establish a comprehensive Third Party Risk Management Program and ensure it is integrated with the overall cyber risk management framework.
1a	"(a)undertaking due diligence to ensure that it chooses suitable 
third party providers of ICT Services that comply with 
appropriate cyber security standards"	How do you conduct the due diligence for your ICT Service providers or vendors? Do you have a documented process in place?	Establish and document a structured due diligence process for selecting third-party ICT service providers.
1b	"(b)ensuring that the terms of the contractual arrangements with a 
third party provider of ICT Services require the third party to:"	Does the Firm have a a contractual arrangements with each of your ICT service providers or vendors?	Firm should have contractual agreement with all the vendors including the important cluases.
1b(i)	"(i)comply with the Authorised Person’s cyber security 
requirements"	Does the contract include clauses related to complying with the security requirements of the organization?	Ensure that all contracts with third-party ICT service providers explicitly require compliance with the Firm's cybersecurity requirements.
1b(ii)	"notify the Authorised Person about any Cyber Incident 
that may affect the Authorised Person; "	Does the contract include clauses related to breach notification and Incident response?	The Firm should mandate in contractual arrangements that third-party providers promptly notify them of any Cyber Incident that could impact the Firm’s operations, data, or systems. The contract should specify timelines for notification (e.g., within72 hours), the format of reporting, and escalation procedures.
1b(iii)	"collaborate with the Authorised Person in remediating 
the impact of a Cyber Incident on the Authorised 
Person; "	Is there a documented process or mechanism in place to ensure that the third party collaborates with the Firm in remediating the impact of Cyber incident (for eg an Incident Response plan)	The Firm should require third-party ICT service providers to actively collaborate in the remediation of Cyber Incidents.
1b(iv)	"allow the Authorised Person to verify that the third party 
continues to meet the Authorised Person’s cyber 
security requirements; and"	Does the contract include "Right to Audit" clause where the Firm can verify that the third party continues to meet the cyber security requirements.	Contracts with third-party ICT providers should grant the Firm the right to verify, through audits, certifications, or assessments, that the provider continues to comply with the Firm’s cybersecurity requirements.
1c	"supervising effectively the provision of ICT Services by third 
parties."	"Does the Firm regulary verify that the third party complies with the organizations cyber security requirements (eg through use of Right to Audit or through Independent Audit reports.
What is the frequency and scope of the reviews?"	Implement a robust third-party oversight framework, including ongoing monitoring, periodic reviews, and performance assessments, to ensure that ICT services are delivered securely and in alignment with regulatory and organisational requirements.
2	"An Authorised Person that relies on the provision of ICT Services by a 
third party remains fully responsible for compliance with, and the 
discharge of, all obligations under this section."	Does the Firm retain accountability for compliance when ICT services are outsourced to a third party? 	Maintain clear accountability by recognising that outsourcing ICT services does not transfer regulatory responsibility.
GEN 5.5.4			
1	"An Authorised Person must ensure that its Governing Body and senior 
management are ultimately responsible for ensuring that its Cyber 
Risk Management Framework is followed and that Cyber Risk is 
managed effectively."	"Does your Firm have a Governance structure in place?
Are the roles and responsiblities of the Governing body and senior management defined?"	The Firm should have a Governance structure along with clearly defined roles and responsibiliies and it should reflect within the Information Security Policy.
